Overview
--------

The project ``v440`` is a PyPI project
that provides mutable version objects
that allow flexible manipulation of version identifiers
following the ``PEP 440`` standard.

Installation
------------

To install ``v440``, you can use ``pip``.
Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install v440

Typing
------

The typing conforms strictly to ``mypy``.

Features
--------

Inherited features are only explained again
if there is further noteworthy information.

``v440.abc``
~~~~~~~~~~~~

``class v440.abc.CoreABC.CoreABC(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract base class is the ancestor of all ``core`` classes.
It establishes some standards for its decendents.

The constructor always works as follows:
- ``other`` is copied if given, otherwise the default values are used.
- ``kwargs`` are applied in the given order, they can be used to immediately alter properties.

All properties have always a getter and a setter.
If the setter receives an invalid value then a ``VersionError`` is raised
and the instance is left unchanged.
If the property is of a mutable type,
then the given value is passed to its ``string`` property.

``__bool__() -> bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``bool(self)``.
It is always defined as equivalent to ``self == type(self)()``.

``__format__(format_spec: object) -> str``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The instances of each class can be formatted.
``format_spec`` is always either valid or invalid for a certain class.
The empty string is valid for all classes and provides the standardized string.
The ``format`` function always returns a ``PEP 440``-conforming string notation of the formatted object.
Each possible ``PEP 440``-conforming notation of an object has at least one valid ``format_spec``
that allows for its recreation in formatting.

``__eq__(other: object) -> Any``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will be overwritten to implement ``self == other``.
If ``type(self) is type(other)``,
the overwrites will always ``return self.string == other.string``.

``__ge__(other: Any) -> Any``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will be overwritten to implement ``self >= other``.
See ``__le__``.

``__gt__(other: Any) -> Any``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will be overwritten to implement ``self > other``.
See ``__le__``.

``__hash__ = None``
"""""""""""""""""""

This ``class`` and all its decendents are unhashable.

``__le__(other: Any) -> Any``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will be overwritten to implement ``self <= other``.
The overwrites should always establish at the very least a partial order.
Indeed, each ``core`` class is ordered in accordance with ``PEP 440``.
Therefore, each class establishes a total order of all of its possible instances -
with the sole exception of ``Pre("")``
which is neither greater than nor lesser than any instances of ``Pre``.

``__lt__(other: Any) -> Any``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will should overwritten to implement ``self < other``.
See ``__le__``.

``__ne__(other: object) -> Any``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This abstract magic method will should overwritten to implement ``self != other``.
See ``__eq__``.

``__repr__() -> str``
"""""""""""""""""""""

``__str__() -> str``
""""""""""""""""""""

This magic method implements ``str(self)``.
It returns ``self.string``.

``copy() -> Self``
""""""""""""""""""

This method returns a copy of ``self``.

``deformat(*strings: object) -> str``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``classmethod`` takes ``PEP 440``-conforming strings and returns the shorted possible ``format_spec`` that can recreate all of them in formatting.
The ``classmethod`` raises ``VersionError`` iff an argument is not actually ``PEP 440``-conforming or no common ``format_spec`` exists.

``packaging: Any``
""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` connects ``v440`` with the ``packaging`` project.
Its getter converts ``self`` to an appropriate value for the ``packaging`` project.
Its setter takes such a value and configures ``self`` to match.

``string: str``
"""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents ``self`` as a string.
``self.string`` returns the same value as ``str(self)``.
Setting this ``property`` allows to change the object in question to the state represented by the provided value.
The ``string`` property accepts any value iff that value provides a ``PEP 440``-conforming string.
It (and therefore also calling ``str``) always returns a standardized ``PEP 440``-conforming string.
Two objects of the same type are equal iff their ``string`` properties are equal.

``class v440.abc.ListABC.ListABC[Item](data: Optional[Iterable[Item]] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract base class inherits from ``CoreABC`` and from ``datahold.HoldList[Item]``.

``class v440.abc.NestedABC.NestedABC(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract base class inherits from ``CoreABC``.

``class v440.abc.QualABC.QualABC(string: object = "")``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract base class inherits from ``CoreABC``.

``lit: str``
""""""""""""

``num: int``
""""""""""""

``v440.core``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This subpackage contains the principle classes of the project.
Each of these classes has a dedicated module inside ``core``.
Each class can be accessed alternatively in a nested fashion,
e.g. ``v440.core.Base.Base is v440.Version.Public.Base``.

``class v440.core.Base.Base(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``class`` represents the base part of a public version identifier.

``Release: Final[type[v440.core.Release.Release]] = v440.core.Release.Release``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``epoch: int``
""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the epoch.

``packaging: str``
""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.base_version`` value.

It is defined as an alias of ``string``.

``release: Release``
""""""""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Release.Release``.

``class v440.core.Dev.Dev(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``class`` represents the developmental release information.

``lit: str``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the literal part of the information.
It can take the values ``""`` (with the numeral ``0``) and ``"dev"`` (with any non-negative numeral).

``num: int``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the numeral part of the information.
It can only take non-negative values and is restricted to ``0`` if ``lit`` is ``""``.

``packaging: Optional[int]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.dev`` value.

``class v440.core.Local.Local(data: Optional[Iterable[int | str]] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This list-like class represents the local part of version identifiers.
It inherits from ``v440.abc.ListABC.ListABC[int | str]``.

``packaging: Optional[str]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.local`` value.

``class v440.core.Post.Post(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``class`` represents the post-release information.

``lit: str``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the literal part of the information. It can take the values ``""`` (with the numeral ``0``) and ``"post"`` (with any non-negative numeral).

``num: int``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the numeral part of the information. It can only take non-negative values and is restricted to ``0`` if ``lit`` is ``""``.

``packaging: Optional[int]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.post`` value.

``class v440.core.Pre.Pre(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``class`` represents the pre-release information.

``lit: str``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the literal part of the information.
It can take the values ``""``, ``"a"``, ``"b"``, and ``"rc"``. The value ``""`` demands the numeral ``0``. It signifies that we are not dealing with a pre-release. All other values tolerate any non-negative numeral. Each of them represents another phase of the pre-release process: alpha-releases, beta-releases, and previews.

``num: int``
""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the numeral part of the information.
It can only take non-negative values and is restricted to ``0`` if ``lit`` is ``""``.

``packaging: Optional[tuple[str, int]]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.pre`` value.

``class v440.core.Public.Public(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``Base: Final[type[v440.core.Base.Base]] = v440.core.Base.Base``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``Qual: Final[type[v440.core.Qual.Qual]] = v440.core.Qual.Qual``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``base: Base``
""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Base.Base``.

``packaging: str``
""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.public`` value.

It is defined as an alias of ``Public.string``.

``qual: Qual``
""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Qual.Qual``.

``class v440.core.Qual.Qual(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

``Dev: Final[type[v440.core.Dev.Dev]] = v440.core.Dev.Dev``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``Post: Final[type[v440.core.Post.Post]] = v440.core.Post.Post``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``Pre: Final[type[v440.core.Pre.Pre]] = v440.core.Pre.Pre``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``dev: Dev``
""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Dev.Dev``.

``isdevrelease() -> bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method returns whether the current instance denotes a dev-release.

``isprerelease() -> bool``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method returns whether the current instance denotes a pre-release.

``ispostrelease() -> bool``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This method returns whether the current instance denotes a post-release.

``packaging: str``
""""""""""""""""""

Strictly speaking, the ``Qual`` class does not have a counterpart in ``packaging``.
By inference however, this ``property`` is defined as an alias of ``Qual.string``.

``post: Post``
""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Post.Post``.

``pre: Pre``
""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Pre.Pre``.

``class v440.core.Release.Release(data: Optional[Iterable[int]] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It inherits from ``v440.abc.ListABC.ListABC[int]``.

``bump(index: SupportsIndex = -1, amount: SupportsIndex = 1) -> None``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``major: int``
""""""""""""""

``micro: int``
""""""""""""""

``minor: int``
""""""""""""""

``packaging: tuple[int, ...]``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version.release`` value.
It is an alias for ``data``.

``patch: int``
""""""""""""""

``class v440.core.Version.Version(other: Optional[Self] = None, /, **kwargs: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This ``class`` is the centrepiece of the ``v440`` project.

``Local: Final[type[v440.core.Local.Local]] = v440.core.Local.Local``
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``Public: Final[type[v440.core.Public.Public]] = v440.core.Public.Public``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

``local: Local``
""""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Local.Local``.

``packaging: packaging.version.Version``
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This ``property`` represents the equivalent ``packaging.version.Version``.

``public: Public``
""""""""""""""""""

See ``v440.core.Public.Public``.

``v440.errors``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``class v440.errors.VersionError.VersionError(*args: Any)``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This class inherits from ``ValueError``.

``v440.tests``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This subpackage allows for testing with ``unittest``.

``v440.tests.test() -> unittest.TextTestResult``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This project can be tested through its ``test`` function.

.. code-block:: python

    import v440.tests
    v440.tests.test()

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/v440/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/v440/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/v440/
- Website: https://v440.johannes-programming.online/

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/
